docs: Add Helm chart 5.x to 6.0 migration guide (#13358)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/helm-charts/mimir-distributed/migration-guides/migrate-helm-chart-5.x-to-6.0.md

---
description: "Migrate the Helm chart from version 5.x to 6.0"
title: "Migrate the Helm chart from version 5.x to 6.0"
menuTitle: "Migrate Helm chart 5.x to 6.0"
weight: 120
---

# Migrate the Helm chart from version 5.x to 6.0

The `mimir-distributed` Helm chart version 6.0 introduces several breaking changes:

- Ingest storage and Kafka are enabled by default. The bundled Kafka deployment is for demo and testing purposes only and is not suitable for production use.
- Rollout-operator webhooks are enabled by default, which requires installing CRDs before upgrading.
- The top-level `nginx` values section has been removed; you must migrate to the unified gateway deployment before upgrading to version 6.0.

## Prerequisites

- You are running `mimir-distributed` Helm chart version 5.x.
- If using the rollout-operator, you have cluster permissions to install CRDs.

> - If you use the top-level `nginx` values, you have already migrated to the unified gateway deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you're using the top-level `nginx` values, you have already migrated to the unified gateway deployment.
```

## Procedure

### 1. Migrate to unified gateway deployment (if needed)

If your values file contains a top-level `nginx` section, you must migrate to the unified gateway deployment before upgrading to version 6.0.

Follow the [Migrate to unified proxy deployment](https://grafana.com/docs/helm-charts/mimir-distributed/v5.8.x/migration-guides/migrate-to-unified-proxy-deployment/) guide to complete this migration.

> ### 2. Install rollout-operator CRDs (if using rollout-operator)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Install rollout-operator CRDs (if using rollout-operator)
```

If you use the rollout-operator, install the CRDs from the rollout-operator chart:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/helm-charts/main/charts/rollout-operator/crds/replica-templates-custom-resource-definition.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/grafana/helm-charts/main/charts/rollout-operator/crds/zone-aware-pod-disruption-budget-custom-resource-definition.yaml
```

### 3. Choose your ingest storage strategy

Choose one of the following options:

> #### Option A: Keep using classic architecture (disable ingest storage)

Reviewer: Do we want to position ingest storage as the first option, since it's preferred?

Author: good call. i'll do that

> Classic architecture will be supported until Mimir 4.0 and removed in 5.0. If you want to continue using the classic architecture without ingest storage, add the following to your values file:

Reviewer 2: I didn't realize we'd planned out the versions classic architecture would be removed in. This sounds reasonable to me but maybe hedge the language here and talk to the team about it?

```suggestion
Classic architecture will be supported until at least Mimir 4.0. If you want to continue using the classic architecture without ingest storage, add the following to your values file:
```

```yaml
mimir:
  structuredConfig:
    ingest_storage:
      enabled: false
  ingester:
    push_grpc_method_enabled: true
kafka:
  enabled: false
```

> After adding these values, proceed to upgrade to version 6.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding these values, upgrade to version 6.0.
```
